**Learn to Code**

[Learn to
Code](https://www.educative.io/courses/learn-to-code-python-for-absolute-beginners/introduction)
is for people who want to step into the programming world with zero
coding knowledge. Stepping on the journey to learn coding is an exciting
and empowering step. Whether you're aiming to become a professional
developer, enhance your problem-solving skills, or simply want to
understand the technology that shapes our world, this guide is designed
to provide you with the best resources to start your programming
adventure from scratch. Dive in and explore the curated list of
resources that will equip you with the knowledge and skills to succeed
in the programming world.

**Getting Started**

In today's digital age, learning to code is a valuable skill that opens
doors to numerous opportunities. This guide is tailored for beginners
who are just stepping into the world of programming. With so many
resources available, it can be overwhelming to find the right ones. This
list provides a structured approach to help you start your coding
journey confidently.

**Resources**

The following are the best learn-to-code resources for individuals who
want to become programmers or software engineers. These resources are
selected to cover all aspects of programming education, from
foundational courses to advanced skill assessments. They are designed to
provide a comprehensive, structured, and practical learning experience,
enabling you to build a solid foundation and grow your expertise in
various programming domains.

# Courses

**Beginner-Friendly Courses:** Explore these courses designed to take
you from absolute beginner to proficient coder in various programming
languages and technologies.

-   [Learn to Code: Python for Absolute
    Beginners](https://www.educative.io/courses/learn-to-code-python-for-absolute-beginners):]
    Start your coding journey with Python, a versatile and
    beginner-friendly language.

-   [Learn to Code: C++ for Absolute
    Beginners](https://www.educative.io/courses/learn-to-code-cpp-for-absolute-beginners):]
    Dive into C++, known for its performance and control over system
    resources

-   [Learn to Code: C# for Absolute
    Beginners](https://www.educative.io/courses/learn-to-code-c-sharp-for-absolute-beginners):]
    Learn C#, a popular language for developing Windows applications.

-   [Learn to Code: Java for Absolute
    Beginners](https://www.educative.io/courses/learn-to-code-java-for-absolute-beginners):]
    Get started with Java, a widely-used language in various domains.

-   [Learn to Code: JavaScript for Absolute
    Beginners](https://www.educative.io/courses/learn-to-code-javascript-for-absolute-beginners):]
    Begin coding with JavaScript, essential for web development.

-   [Learn to Code: Ruby for Absolute
    Beginners](https://www.educative.io/courses/learn-to-code-ruby-for-absolute-beginners):]
    Explore Ruby, a language known for its simplicity and productivity.

-   [Programming in
    Python](https://www.educative.io/courses/programming-in-python):
    Enhance your Python skills with this comprehensive course.

-   [Learn Python 3 from
    Scratch](https://www.educative.io/courses/learn-python-3-from-scratch):
    Master Python 3, the latest version of this powerful language.

-   [Python 3: From Beginner to
    Advanced](https://www.educative.io/courses/python-3-beginner-advanced):
    Transition from a Python beginner to an advanced coder.

-   [Programming in
    Python](https://www.coursera.org/learn/programming-in-python):
    Enhance your Python skills with this comprehensive course.

-   [Learn Java from
    Scratch](https://www.educative.io/courses/learn-java-from-scratch):
    Build a solid foundation in Java programming.

-   [Learn
    Java](https://www.codechef.com/learn/course/java)

-   [A Complete Guide to Java
    Programming](https://www.educative.io/courses/complete-guide-to-java-programming):
    A detailed course covering all aspects of Java.

-   [Learning Java for Python
    Programmers](https://www.educative.io/courses/learning-java-for-python-programmers):
    Bridge your Python knowledge to learn Java.

-   [Learn C from
    Scratch](https://www.educative.io/courses/learn-c-from-scratch):
    Start coding in C, a foundational language for many modern
    languages.

-   [Learn C++: The Complete Course for
    Beginners](https://www.educative.io/courses/learn-cpp-complete-course):
    Comprehensive C++ course for new programmers.

-   [C# for Programmers: A Practical
    Guide](https://www.educative.io/courses/c-sharp-for-programmers-a-practical-guide):
    Practical insights and techniques for learning C#.

-   [An Introductory Guide to
    SQL](https://www.educative.io/courses/introductory-guide-to-sql):
    Start working with databases using SQL.

-   [Learn HTML, CSS, and JavaScript from
    Scratch](https://www.educative.io/courses/learn-html-css-javascript-from-scratch):
    Build web development skills from the ground up.

-   [Web Development: Unraveling HTML, CSS, and
    JavaScript](https://www.educative.io/courses/web-development-unraveling-html-css-js):
    Comprehensive guide to essential web technologies.

-   [Learn Node.js: The Complete Course for
    Beginners](https://www.educative.io/courses/learn-nodejs-complete-course-for-beginners):
    Learn Node.js for server-side programming.

# 

# Skill Paths

**Structured Learning Paths:** Follow these curated paths to
systematically build your skills and prepare for a career in software
development, data analysis, machine learning, and more.

-   [Learn to Code: Become a Software
    Engineer](https://www.educative.io/path/learn-to-code-become-a-software-engineer):
    Follow this path to become a proficient software engineer.

-   [Learn to Code: Become a Java
    Developer](https://www.educative.io/path/learn-to-code-become-a-java-developer):
    Specialize in Java and its applications.

-   [Zero to Hero in
    Java](https://www.educative.io/path/zero-to-hero-in-java):
    Master Java from basics to advanced topics.

-   [Learn to Code: Become a Data
    Analyst](https://www.educative.io/path/learn-to-code-become-a-data-analyst):
    Develop the skills needed for data analysis.

-   [Learn to Code: Become a Machine Learning
    Engineer](https://www.educative.io/path/learn-to-code-become-a-machine-learning-engineer):
    Dive into machine learning and AI.

-   [Computer Science
    Bootcamp](https://www.educative.io/path/computer-science-bootcamp):
    Comprehensive computer science education.

-   [Zero to Hero in
    Python](https://www.educative.io/path/zero-to-hero-in-python):
    Go from a beginner to an expert in Python.

-   [Python for
    Programmers](https://www.educative.io/path/python-for-programmers):
    Beginner to Advanced Python topics to become a Python Programmer.

-   [Become a C++
    Programmer](https://www.educative.io/path/cpp-for-programmers):
    Master C++ for software development.

-   [Zero to Hero in
    C++](https://www.educative.io/path/zero-to-hero-in-cpp):
    Complete C++ education from basics to advanced.

-   [Zero to Hero in
    C#](https://www.educative.io/path/zero-to-hero-in-c-sharp):
    Learn C# for various applications.

-   [Zero to Hero in
    JavaScript](https://www.educative.io/path/zero-to-hero-in-javascript):
    Master JavaScript for web development.

-   [Fundamentals of Web
    Programming](https://www.educative.io/path/fundamentals-web-programming):
    Essential web programming skills.

-   [Learn to Code: Become a Web
    Developer](https://www.educative.io/path/learn-to-code-become-a-web-developer):
    Comprehensive guide to web development.

-   [Zero to Hero in Front-end Web
    Development](https://www.educative.io/path/zero-to-hero-in-front-end-web-development):
    Specialize in front-end technologies.

# Projects

**Hands-On Projects:** Enhance your coding skills by working on these
practical, real-world projects designed to reinforce your learning and
build your portfolio.

-   [Python Slam Dunk: Coding Skills Through
    Basketball](https://www.educative.io/module/page/k5m3gAColoJZZj89Y/10370001/6284744546975744/6117916340256768):
    Combine coding with your love for basketball.

-   [Build Your Own Chatbot in
    Python](https://www.educative.io/module/page/k5m3gAColoJZZj89Y/10370001/5828641646313472/6710869083422720):
    Create a functional chatbot using Python.

-   [PDF Management in
    Python](https://www.educative.io/module/page/k5m3gAColoJZZj89Y/10370001/5828641646313472/6340644613783552):
    Learn to manage PDF files with Python.

-   [Capstone Project: AI-based Text and Image
    Generator](https://www.educative.io/module/page/k5m3gAColoJZZj89Y/10370001/4928652672892928/6455417438339072/project):
    Develop an AI project from scratch.

-   [Create a Tic Tac Toe Application with Minimax Using
    JavaFX](https://www.educative.io/projects/create-a-tic-tac-toe-application-with-minimax-using-javafx):
    Implement a classic game with advanced algorithms.

-   [Data Visualization Using
    Plotly.js](https://www.educative.io/projects/data-visualization-using-plotlyjs):
    Visualize data using Plotly.js.

-   [Student Management System Using PythonStudent Management System
    Using
    Python](https://codewithcurious.com/projects/student-management-system-using-python/):
    Build a complete student management system.

# Blogs

**Inspiring and Informative Reads:** Stay updated and inspired with
these blogs, offering tips, insights, and advice on learning to code,
career development, and more.

-   [How to start coding in
    2024](https://www.educative.io/blog/start-coding): Tips
    and advice for new coders.

-   [Why Everyone Should Learn to
    Code](https://www.educative.io/blog/why-everyone-should-learn-to-code):
    Explore the benefits of coding.

-   [How to teach yourself to code gradually in
    2024](https://www.educative.io/blog/how-to-teach-yourself-to-code):
    Self-paced coding strategies.

-   [Can I learn coding on my own? The ultimate guide for
    2024](https://www.educative.io/blog/can-i-learn-coding-on-my-own):
    Independent learning tips.

-   [The best ways to learn to code in
    2024](https://www.educative.io/blog/the-best-ways-to-learn-to-code):
    Effective learning methods.

-   [The best web developer roadmap for
    2024](https://www.educative.io/blog/web-developer-roadmap):
    Navigate your web development journey.

-   [Learn how to code: The beginner\'s guide to coding and
    syntax](https://www.educative.io/blog/learn-how-to-code-beginners-guide):
    Coding fundamentals and syntax.

-   [Should I learn Python as my first programming
    language?](https://www.educative.io/blog/python-as-your-first-programming-language):
    Explore Python as a starting point.

-   [Best Way to Learn Python
    Coding](https://www.educative.io/blog/best-way-to-learn-python):
    Effective Python learning strategies.

-   [11 Beginner Tips for Learning Python Programming
    (Non-Educative)](https://realpython.com/python-beginner-tips/):
    Practical tips for new Python coders.

-   [Top 10 courses to learn Python
    online](https://www.educative.io/blog/top-10-online-python-courses):
    Recommended Python courses.

-   [Step up your coding skills with this free Python
    course](https://www.educative.io/blog/free-python-course):
    Free Python learning resource.

-   [How to learn Python in 5 easy steps (for
    beginners)](https://www.educative.io/blog/how-to-learn-python-in-5-easy-steps):
    Simplified learning steps.

-   [How to take integer input in
    Python](https://www.educative.io/blog/how-to-take-integer-input-in-python):
    Input handling in Python.

-   [How long does it take to learn
    Python?](https://www.educative.io/blog/how-long-does-it-take-to-learn-python):
    Timeframe for learning Python.

-   [3 tips for beginner Python devs: Advice from an industry
    expert](https://www.educative.io/blog/tips-beginner-python-developers):
    Expert advice for new Python developers.

-   [The best web developer roadmap for
    2024](https://www.educative.io/blog/web-developer-roadmap):
    Comprehensive web development guide.

-   [The right time for beginner coders to start
    projects](https://www.educative.io/blog/the-right-time-to-start-your-coding-projects):
    When to start coding projects.

-   [How can I learn to code for
    free?](https://www.educative.io/blog/learn-to-code-for-free):
    Free coding resources.

-   [Why learning to code is still important in an AI-driven
    world](https://www.educative.io/blog/learning-to-code-in-ai)**:**
    The importance of coding skills.

# Cheat Sheets

**Quick References:** Use these cheat sheets as quick references to
reinforce your learning and solve coding challenges efficiently.

-   [C++ FOR ABSOLUTE
    BEGINNERS](https://www.educative.io/api/cheatsheet/6409192875884544/download):
    Essential C++ syntax and functions.

-   [PYTHON CHEATSHEET FOR ABSOLUTE
    BEGINNERS](https://www.educative.io/api/cheatsheet/5899594593075200/download):
    Key Python concepts and commands.

-   [Python3 Cheat
    Sheet](https://perso.limsi.fr/pointal/_media/python:cours:mementopython3-english.pdf):
    Comprehensive Python 3 guide.

-   [Programming
    Fundamentals](https://www.educative.io/api/cheatsheet/5889597530308608/download):
    Core programming principles.

-   [Object-Oriented Programming
    (OOP)](https://www.educative.io/api/cheatsheet/6084788272889856/download):
    OOP concepts and principles.

-   [Introduction to
    SQL](https://www.educative.io/api/cheatsheet/5141612851757056/download):
    Basic SQL commands and queries.

-   [Web Development
    Basics-CSS](https://www.educative.io/api/cheatsheet/5667547047919616/download):
    Essential CSS properties and selectors.

-   [Software Development Life
    Cycle](https://www.educative.io/api/cheatsheet/6639066158858240/download)*:*
    Key phases of software development.

# Skill Assessments

**Test Your Knowledge:** Evaluate your understanding and proficiency in
various programming languages and concepts with these skill assessments.

-   [PYTHON
    FUNDAMENTALS](https://www.educative.io/assessments/python-fundamentals-assessment):
    Assess your Python basics.

-   [Python
    Quiz](https://www.w3schools.com/python/python_quiz.asp):
    Test your Python knowledge.

-   [SQL
    Fundamentals](https://www.educative.io/assessments/sql-fundamentals):
    Basic SQL knowledge assessment.

-   [Object-Oriented Programming in
    Java](https://www.educative.io/assessments/object-oriented-programming-in-java):
    Java OOP concepts assessment.

-   [C
    FUNDAMENTALS](https://www.educative.io/assessments/c-fundamentals):
    Test your knowledge of C.

-   [C++
    Fundamentals](https://www.educative.io/assessments/cpp-fundamentals):
    Basic C++ knowledge assessment.

-   [C#
    FUNDAMENTALS](https://www.educative.io/assessments/c-sharp-fundamentals):
    Assess your C# basics.

-   [Java
    Fundamentals](https://www.educative.io/assessments/java-fundamentals):
    Core Java knowledge test.

-   [Core Java Quiz \| Java Online
    Test](https://www.javatpoint.com/core-java-quiz):
    Advanced Java assessment.

-   [PYTHON PANDAS
    FUNDAMENTALS](https://www.educative.io/assessments/python-pandas-fundamentals):
    Test your knowledge of Pandas in Python.

-   [DATA STRUCTURES AND ALGORITHMS
    FUNDAMENTALS](https://www.educative.io/assessments/data-structures-and-algorithms-fundamentals):
    Core DSA concepts assessment.

-   [Design Pattern
    Fundamentals](https://www.educative.io/collection/page/10370001/5405225487958016/4705554780127232/assessment):
    Test your knowledge of design patterns.

-   [HTML
    FUNDAMENTALS](https://www.educative.io/assessments/html-fundamentals):
    Basic HTML knowledge assessment.

-   [WEB DEVELOPMENT
    FUNDAMENTALS](https://www.educative.io/assessments/web-development-fundamentals):
    Core web development concepts test.

-   [CSS
    FUNDAMENTALS](https://www.educative.io/assessments/css-fundamentals):
    Assess your CSS knowledge.

-   [JAVASCRIPT
    FUNDAMENTALS](https://www.educative.io/assessments/javascript-fundamentals):
    Test your JavaScript basics.

# Interviews Preparation

**Get Ready for Job Interviews:** Prepare thoroughly for coding
interviews with these resources, covering everything from technical
questions to behavioral interviews.

-   [The Coding Career
    Handbook](https://www.educative.io/courses/coding-career-handbook):
    Comprehensive guide for coding careers.

-   [Grokking the Behavioral
    Interview](https://www.educative.io/courses/grokking-the-behavioral-interview):
    Prepare for behavioral questions.

-   [Data Structures for Coding Interviews in
    Python](https://www.educative.io/courses/data-structures-coding-interviews-python):
    Python-specific interview prep.

-   [Decode the Coding Interview in Python: Real-World
    Examples](https://www.educative.io/courses/decode-coding-interview-python):
    Practical Python interview questions.

-   [Data Structures for Coding Interviews in
    C++](https://www.educative.io/courses/data-structures-coding-interviews-cpp):
    C++-specific interview prep.

-   [Decode the Coding Interview in C++: Real-World
    Examples](https://www.educative.io/courses/decode-coding-interview-cpp):
    Practical C++ interview questions.

-   [Data Structures for Coding Interviews in
    C#](https://www.educative.io/courses/data-structures-interviews-cs):
    C#-specific interview prep.

-   [Decode the Coding Interview in C#: Real-World
    Examples](https://www.educative.io/courses/decode-the-coding-interview-csharp):
    Practical C# interview questions.

-   [Data Structures for Coding Interviews in
    Java](https://www.educative.io/courses/data-structures-coding-interviews-java):
    Java-specific interview prep.

-   [Decode the Coding Interview in Java: Real-World
    Examples](https://www.educative.io/courses/decode-coding-interview-java):
    Practical Java interview questions.

-   [Data Structures for Coding Interviews in
    JavaScript](https://www.educative.io/courses/data-structures-coding-interviews-javascript):
    JavaScript-specific interview prep.

-   [JS Assessment: Assess your Javascript
    skills](https://www.educative.io/courses/assess-your-javascript-skills):
    JavaScript skills assessment.

-   [Decode the Coding Interview in JavaScript: Real-World
    Examples](https://www.educative.io/courses/decode-coding-interview-js):
    Practical JavaScript interview questions.

-   [Master the JavaScript
    Interview](https://www.educative.io/courses/master-the-javascript-interview):
    In-depth JavaScript interview preparation.

-   [Deep Dive Into Data Science
    Interview](https://www.educative.io/courses/deep-dive-into-data-science-interview):
    Prepare for data science interviews.

-   [Coderust: Hacking the Coding
    Interview](https://www.educative.io/courses/coderust-hacking-the-coding-interview):
    Comprehensive interview preparation.

-   [Coding Interview
    Preparation](https://www.coursera.org/learn/coding-interview-preparation#modules):
    General coding interview resources.

-   [Algorithmic Problem Solving: Preparing for a Coding
    Interview](https://www.educative.io/courses/algorithmic-problem-solving-preparing-for-a-coding-interview):
    Focus on algorithms for interviews.

These resources are carefully curated to ensure you have a
comprehensive, structured, and practical learning experience. Happy
coding!
